README.md, before:

# [UMM](https://github.com/mightycow/ubermmemuxer) - Uber MME Muxer

Purpose
-------

UMM is used to simplify the batch processing of video and image sequences that are output by [**Q3MME**](http://q3mme.proboards.com/) (**Quake 3 Movie-Maker Edition**).  
It allows you to mux all of the output into .avi files with audio (when available).

Installation
------------

UMM requires [**.NET Framework 4.0 Client Profile**](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=24872) at a minimum to to run.  
If the link doesn't work, seach for **Microsoft .NET Framework 4 Client Profile (Standalone Installer)**.

UMM requires **MEncoder**, which is part of the free and open source **MPlayer** video player package.  
It doesn't need any installation, you can extract it anywhere (even in **Program Files** or **Program Files (x86)**).  
Only the version described as **for 32-bit Windows** will work with **VFW** codecs, so you should grab that one.  
You can find the [Windows builds here](http://mplayerwin.sourceforge.net/downloads.html).

If you want to use a **VFW** codec (like Lagarith, for instance), you have to copy the .dll file(s) to **$(MPlayer_folder)\codecs**.

UMM itself creates a `Config.xml` settings file right next to the executable so it's best to:
1. Have UMM in its own folder, so that `Config.xml` stays with the executable.
2. Not have UMM in **Program Files** or **Program Files (x86)**

Setting up
----------

Open up UMM.exe and navigate to the `Settings` tab.  
Under `General Settings`, make sure you fill in the `MEncoder Path` text box with the file path to your *MEncoder.exe*.

Use Cases
---------

| Input format                                      | File name                 | COP<sup>[1]</sup>: off | COP<sup>[1]</sup>: on | CODEC used | Audio?
|:--------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------|:-------------------|:------------------|:-----------|:------------
| **1)**  Single .avi file                          | $(final_name).avi         | Same   | Custom | Color      | If available
| **2)**  Folder with .avi file(s) + optional .wav  | $(final_name).avi         | Parent | Custom | Color      | If available
| **3)**  Folder with image file(s) + optional .wav | $(final_name).avi         | Parent | Custom | Color      | If available
| **3) a)** if matches (*.depth.*.$(ext))           | $(final_name).depth.avi   | Parent | Custom | Monochrome | No
| **3) b)** if matches (*.stencil.*.$(ext))         | $(final_name).stencil.avi | Parent | Custom | Monochrome | No
1. COP is Custom Output Folder, see `Output all files to this foler` under `General Settings`

All output files (marked as `$(final_name)` above) are named according to the `File Naming Rules` settings.

Settings
--------

| Video CODEC | Description |
|:------------|:------------|
| Raw         | This will actually transform the input into a color-space/codec of MEncoder's choosing. |
| Copy        | This will tell MEncoder to leave the data untouched whenever possible. Note that .tga inputs will create MTGA (Motion TGA) outputs and .png inputs will create MPNG (Motion PNG) outputs. |
| Lagarith    | Use the Lagarith lossless codec: this codec only supports RGB(A) and YUV color spaces. |
| Lavc        | Use a codec supported by the libavcodec library. |

### Monochrome Video CODEC
* The same explanations as for the `Video CODEC` settings above apply, except...
* Those settings are only used for depth/stencil image sequences.
* Depth sequences are those including the string ".depth." in the image file names.
* Stencil sequences are those including the string ".stencil." in the image file names.

### Input and output FPS
If *In* is the `Input Frame Rate` and *Out* the `Output Frame Rate`, we have the following 3 possible scenarios:

| Scenario | What to do or look out for |
|:---------|:---------------------------|
| Out > In | This should never happen, render at the desired frame-rate instead. |
| Out = In | It's all good. |
| Out < In | This is usually used to have shorter *blur traces*. Make sure the input value is an *integer multiple* of the output value: `In = n * Out, where n is an integer` |

Contact
-------

GitHub user: [mightycow](https://github.com/mightycow)  
GitHub project page: [ubermmemuxer](https://github.com/mightycow/ubermmemuxer)

myT @ QuakeNet on IRC  
myT @ [ESR](http://esreality.com/?a=users&user_id=37287)

Thanks
------

The Q3MME developers  
The MPlayer/MEncoder developers  
entik  
farnish  
santile  

License
-------

The entire source code in this release is covered by the GPL.  
See [COPYING.txt](@TODO:) for the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.

Uber MME Muxer (UMM) is Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Gian 'myT' Schellenbaum.

Commit message:

chg: improved the readme with better formatting and a new typical usage scenario section

README.md, after:

# [UMM](https://github.com/mightycow/ubermmemuxer) - Uber MME Muxer

Purpose
-------

UMM is used to simplify the batch processing of video and image sequences that are output by [**Q3MME**](http://q3mme.proboards.com/) (**Quake 3 Movie-Maker Edition**).  
It allows you to mux all of the output into .avi files with audio (when available).

Installation
------------

UMM requires [**.NET Framework 4.0 Client Profile**](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=24872) at a minimum to to run.  
If the link doesn't work, seach for **Microsoft .NET Framework 4 Client Profile (Standalone Installer)**.

UMM requires **MEncoder**, which is part of the free and open source **MPlayer** video player package.  
It doesn't need any installation, you can extract it anywhere (even in **Program Files** or **Program Files (x86)**).  
Only the version described as **for 32-bit Windows** will work with **VFW** codecs, so you should grab that one.  
You can find the [Windows builds here](http://mplayerwin.sourceforge.net/downloads.html).

If you want to use a **VFW** codec (like *Lagarith*, for instance), you have to copy the .dll file(s) to **$(MPlayer_folder)\codecs** and make sure you have the 32-bit version of **MEncoder**.

UMM itself creates a `Config.xml` settings file right next to the executable so it's best to:

1. Have UMM in its own folder, so that `Config.xml` stays with the executable.
2. Not have UMM in **Program Files** or **Program Files (x86)**

Once you have UMM and MEncoder extracted into their respective folders:

1. Open up UMM.exe and navigate to the `Settings` tab.
2. Under `General Settings`, make sure you fill in the `MEncoder Path` text box with the file path to your *MEncoder.exe*.

Typical UMM usage scenario
--------------------------

The typical day-to-day usage scenario for UMM, assuming it's been set up properly:

1. Render some demos with **q3mme**.
2. Drag'n'drop the content of **q3mme**'s `capture` folder into UMM.
3. Click `Go!`.
4. If necessary, move and/or rename some of the output .avi files to their final location.
5. You can now import the video files into your preferred video editing tool and work on that cool movie of yours.

Supported input formats
-----------------------

| Input format                                      | File name                 | COP<sup>[1]</sup>: off | COP<sup>[1]</sup>: on | CODEC used | Audio?
|:--------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------|:-------------------|:------------------|:-----------|:------------
| **1)**  Single .avi file                          | $(final_name).avi         | Same   | Custom | Color      | If available
| **2)**  Folder with .avi file(s) + optional .wav  | $(final_name).avi         | Parent | Custom | Color      | If available
| **3)**  Folder with image file(s) + optional .wav | $(final_name).avi         | Parent | Custom | Color      | If available
| **3) a)** if matches (*.depth.*.$(ext))           | $(final_name).depth.avi   | Parent | Custom | Monochrome | No
| **3) b)** if matches (*.stencil.*.$(ext))         | $(final_name).stencil.avi | Parent | Custom | Monochrome | No
1. COP: Custom Output Folder --- see `Output all files to this foler` under `General Settings`

All output files (marked as `$(final_name)` above) are named according to the `File Naming Rules` settings.

Settings
--------

| Video CODEC | Description |
|:------------|:------------|
| Raw         | This will actually transform the input into a color-space/codec of MEncoder's choosing. |
| Copy        | This will tell MEncoder to leave the data untouched whenever possible. Note that .tga inputs will create MTGA (Motion TGA) outputs and .png inputs will create MPNG (Motion PNG) outputs. |
| Lagarith    | Use the Lagarith lossless codec: this codec only supports RGB(A) and YUV color spaces. |
| Lavc        | Use a codec supported by the libavcodec library. |

### Monochrome Video CODEC
* The same explanations as for the `Video CODEC` settings above apply, except...
* Those settings are only used for depth/stencil image sequences.
* Depth sequences are those including the string ".depth." in the image file names.
* Stencil sequences are those including the string ".stencil." in the image file names.

### Input and output FPS
If *In* is the `Input Frame Rate` and *Out* the `Output Frame Rate`, we have the following 3 possible scenarios:

| Scenario | What to do or look out for |
|:---------|:---------------------------|
| Out > In | This should never happen, render at the desired frame-rate instead. |
| Out = In | It's all good. |
| Out < In | This is usually used to have shorter *blur traces*. Make sure the input value is an *integer multiple* of the output value: `In = n * Out, where n is an integer` |

Contact
-------

GitHub user: [mightycow](https://github.com/mightycow)  
GitHub project page: [ubermmemuxer](https://github.com/mightycow/ubermmemuxer)

myT @ QuakeNet on IRC  
myT @ [ESR](http://esreality.com/?a=users&user_id=37287)

Thanks
------

The Q3MME developers  
The MPlayer/MEncoder developers  
entik  
farnish  
santile  

License
-------

The entire source code in this release is covered by the GPL.  
See [COPYING.txt](@TODO:) for the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.

Uber MME Muxer (UMM) is Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Gian 'myT' Schellenbaum.
